







                               RPGBBS Deluxe
                           The Role-Playing Game
                           Bulletin Board System



            Copyright 1996 Robert Hurst.  All Rights Reserved.

















                                DISCLAIMER
                                ==========

Micro  Wave  Software/Robert  Hurst  ("MWSOFT")  make no warranties, either
expressed or implied, with respect to the information and computer software
described  herein,  it's  quality, performance, merchantability, or fitness
for  any  particular  purpose.  Such computer software and documentation is
provided  on  an  "AS  IS"  basis.  The entire risk as to their quality and
performance  is  with the LICENSEE.  Should the information and/or computer
software  prove  defective,  the  LICENSEE  (and  not  the creator, MWSOFT)
assumes  the entire cost of all necessary damages.  In no event will MWSOFT
be  liable  for  direct,  indirect,  incidental  or  consequential  damages
resulting  from any defect in the information and computer software even if
it  has  been advised of the possibility of such damages.  Some laws do not
allow  the exclusion of implied warranties or liabilities for incidental or
consequential damages, so the above limitation or exclusion may not apply.

                             Table of Contents
                             =================

                               Introduction

                                The Basics

                              Ability Ratings

                             Character Classes

                                 The Arena

                              Bulletin Boards

                            Deep, Dank Dungeon

                               File Section

                              Gambling Casino

                                Naval Area

                               Party Fights

                                The Square

                               Tiny's Tavern

                               Other Options

                             Becoming Immortal

                               Installation

                                  Server

                                  Client

                                   Sysop

                               Introduction
                               ============

	The portly man with the bulging coin purse approaches with his two
strong, but inexperienced-looking bodyguards.  Without so much as extending
his hand, he speaks.

	"So ye think ye want to be an adventurer, eh?" After scanning you
over, he continues.  "Certainly don't look the type, all sissified and
soft.  Ye'll be running for yer wetnurse soon enough, I'll warrant.  But if
ye want to play with the big boys, ye've come to the right place.  Ye want
to be rich, famous, an' powerful like the rest, don't ye?  Aye, else ye
wouldn't be here.

	Well, don't be thinkin' this is a cakewalk.  Ye'll be payin' yer
dues, and there's plenty of 'em to be paid.  By the way, me name's Joe
Mollicone.  Ye can call me 'Sir', or 'Mr.  Mollicone', or simply 'Taxman',
that's what I does here, but don't let me catch ye badmouthin' me behind me
back."

	As he turns to leave, he shouts behind him.  "Personally, I don't
think ye has what it takes.  Best to run yer yellow butt back to where it
came from."
 
	RPGBBS Deluxe is basically a bulletin board built around a medieval
role-playing atmosphere (or is it the other way around?).  Though it has
the standard BBS functions, such as a message base, file section, and
e-mail, there are no online games.  Instead, you LIVE the online game as
you kill, rob from, brawl, and joust the other members to gain levels and
fortune.  The success of this game is dependent upon the users that play
it.  Your involvment will not only provide you with entertainment, but also
shares your activity with the other players.  Please take some time to read
the ensuing sections and enjoy the game!


                                The Basics
                                ==========

	The Taxman hears your footsteps behind him and turns.  "Didn't heed
me advice, worm?  All right, but don't say I didn't warn ye.  There's some
things ye need to know first if ye hope to make it here, not that I think
ye will anyway."

	Here are some tips worth knowing:

	 Whenever a prompt asks for a username, you can enter a "?" for a
	  listing by level.

	 At prompts preceded by [MAX=], you can just type "max" rather
	  than enter the entire amount.

	 Defeating a Blessed user transfers their Blessing to you - you
	  will receive +10 bonus points to all your character abilities
	  (Strength, Intellect, Dexterity, and Charisma).

	 Being defeated by a Cursed user will transfer the Curse to you
	  and apply a -10 penalty to all your character abilities.

	 Be sure to spend your money as soon as you get it.  The better
	  your equipment, the more money you will get in the Dungeon.
	  Hoarding gold might attract the Taxman.

	 Jousting is a quick way to get some much sought-after cash,
	  especially at the beginning.

	 Do NOT swear anywhere on the system.  There are dire consequences
	  to those that do.


                              Ability Ratings
                              ===============

	"Aye, but ye're a weak one, ain't ye?  Ye better pu on some pounds
before ye takes on the likes of me an' me men.  Oh, don't look so
surprised, cur.  I'll be back around when ye get somethin' worth taxin'.
And if yer some kind of treasonous scum who don't want to help keep this
fine city runnin', ye'll have to cut through me an' the boys before
enterin'."

	Your abilities consist of Experience Level, Hit Points, Spell
Power, Strength, Intellect, Dexterity, and Charisma.  Each is described
below.

	 Experience Level:  This indicates how powerful in your class you
	  are.  You raise levels by gaining experience points for killing
	  monsters and other users.  With each increase in level, you will
	  gain more Hit Points, Spell Power (if used by your class), and a
	  bonus to the four characteristics.

	 Hit Points:  This measures a character's durability.  The more
	  Hit Points you have, the more damage you can take.  When your Hit
	  Points are down, you can raise them by visiting Butler Hospital,
	  gaining an experience level, or casting Heal or Cure.  Each time
	  you log on your Hit Points are restored to full.

	 Spell Power:  This is how much magical energy a character has at
	  their disposal.  If the character class uses spells or scrolls,
	  there will be an accompanying Spell Power requirement for casting
	  each.  Those classes that use wands do not have to expend any
	  force to invoke them.

	 Strength:  This tracks how hard a character hits.  Characters
	  with higher Strength gain more Hit Points when advancing in
	  Experience Levels.  More Strength yields more damage in melee
	  attacks.

	 Intellect:  This statistic comes into play mainly in casting and
	  resisting magic.  It is also calculated into approximating an
	  opponent's Hit Points.  Bonus Spell Power is awarded to those
	  with a high Intellect upon gaining a level.

	 Dexterity:  Your overall fighting ability is measured by how
	  dexterous you are.  It is used to calculate who gets the first
	  attack in a battle round, whether a hit was made, jousting
	  ability, and in other applicable instances.

	 Charisma:  A high Charisma will get you more money when selling
	  items in the Square and from defeated foes.  Some of the random
	  events that occur tend to favor those with a high Charisma as
	  well.


                             Character Classes
                             =================

	"Ye'll be needin' to choose a profession that ye want to pursue
here as well.  From the looks of ye, I'd recommend shovellin' manure, but
that ain't one of yer options.  Ye'll just have to find one ye might not be
TOO incompetent in."

	Character classes define the nature and tendencies of a character.
Some may hit for more damage, such as the Barbarian, but must pay a higher
price to use magic.  Others may be able to weave intricate spells, but are
poor in physical combat.  Each is listed below, with an explanation of
benefits and shortcomings.

	 Alchemist:  This character is a master of using poison, getting a
	  4x bonus when using it on his weapon.  Alchemists receive an
	  extra Intellect point when gaining a level.  Advantages:  Can buy
	  poison cheaply and do a great deal of damage when using it.
	  Disadvantages:  Can not buy any magic at all, poor combat
	  abilities without poison.

	 Assassin:  This character class is similar to a ninja in
	  abilities, making him a worthy opponent.  Assassins gain an extra
	  Dexterity point upon gaining a level.  Advantages:  Can use
	  poison well, and generally gets a backstab.  Disadvantages:  Must
	  purchase expensive wands.

	 Barbarian:  This is the strongest combat-class fighter in the
	  game, but most susceptible to the effects of magic.  A
	  Barbarian's hitting power grows as he gains more experience;
	  there will be a point when he can hit for as many points
	  barehanded as with weapons.  Barbarians gain +1 Strength point
	  per level.  Advantages:  Very hard hitter.  Disadvantages:  Poor
	  magic resistance, must buy wands.

	 Bard:  This class is a jack-of-all trades, an entertainer.  Bards
	  gain an extra Charisma point per level.  Advantages:  Can do it
	  all.  Disadvantages:  Can not do any of it WELL.

	 Cleric:  These devout fellows have good magic and combat
	  abilities.  And extra Charisma point is awarded with each level.
	  Advantages:  Normal use of magic spells, can possess very high
	  Charisma.  Disadvantages:  Poor Dexterity, poor poison use.

	 Fighter:  A one-man killing machine.  Fighters gain an additional
	  point to their Stamina when gaining a level.  Advantages:  Tough
	  opponents.  Disadvantages:  Poor poison use, must purchase wands.

	 Jester:  The best term used to describe this class is "annoying
	  pest." Though their combat ability is sorely lacking, they are
	  great at dodging blows.  Jesters receive a bonus Charisma point
	  upon gaining a level.  Advantages:  Use spells, can backstab,
	  good robbing ability.  Disadvantages:  Ineffective poison use,
	  weak combatant.

	 Magician:  This is the magical counterpart of the fighter -
	  strong magical abilities, but weak in physical combat.  Magicians
	  gain a bonus point to Intellect per level.  Advantages:  Use
	  spells well.  Disadvantages:  Ineffective poison, weak
	  physically.

	 Ranger:  These specialty-fighters have a number of abilities.
	  Rangers gain an extra Stamina point when they gain a level.
	  Advantages:  Use scrolls, can hit fairly well.  Disadvantages:
	  Cannot use poison, does not excel in a particular area.

	 Rogue:  This class is similar to a Thief, but do not specialize
	  in one ability.  Rogues are awarded an extra Charisma point when
	  gaining a level.  Advantages:  Use scrolls well, good backstab,
	  good robbing ability.  Disadvantages:  Ineffective poison use,
	  poor physical combat.

	 Sage:  Though this class is the weakest in physical combat,
	  Sages' spellcasting ability rivals that of a God-class.  Sages
	  gain an extra Intellect point when gaining a level.  Advantages:
	  Super-powered magic.  Disadvantages:  Ineffective poison use,
	  poor stamina.

	 Thief:  The Thief uses his stealth abilities to sneak in his
	  deadly backstab.  Thieves, accordingly, also have the best chance
	  of robbing.  This class gains an extra Dexterity point every
	  level.  Advantages:  Great backstab, good poison use, excellent
	  robbing ability.  Disadvantages:  Uses wands, weak regular
	  attacks, poor Charisma.

	The Paladin, Titan, and God classes are described in section
Becoming Immortal.


                                 The Arena
                                 =========

	"Think ye're a force to reckon with, do ye?  Well, the monsters and
your fellow grubs will put ye back in yer place, that I assure ye.  Better
stick to somethin' safe, like joustin'...  or needlepoint!"

	The arena is the proving grounds, where you test your mettle
against monsters and other users.  It is relatively safe, as you can
retreat at any time, but do not get too complacent - if you wait until you
are too far down on Hit Points you may get killed by a powerful blow before
you can escape.  You can do battle against other users here by typing "U"
and providing the levels you want listed.  You can only fight someone
higher than or up to three levels below you.  If you win, you receive
experience points, any money they might have in their hand, and their
Blessing, if they have one.  You will also get their armor and weapon (if
it is better than yours).  If you are killed, however, your opponent may
take your better weapon and/or armor.

	When you kill a user, they will remain dead until either they log
on again or are Resurrected.  If you kill a user of higher level than you,
they will only be worth the experience points of your level until they log
on again.  For example, you kill a level 25 Fighter when you are at level
18.  If that player becomes Alive!  again, the attacker that kills him
again, in the interim, will only gain level 18 experience points.

	Several semi-intelligent denizens like to compete for cash and
prizes as well.  When doing a Monster Fight, start at the bottom and work
your way up slowly.  You may do up to three Monster or User Fights per call
(or any combination thereof).

	The Arena also features a jousting field.  Here you enter a
best-of-five-passes match against a user you specify.  Each win increases
your Joust Status by two points, each loss decreases it by one point.  If
you win, you will get a set amount of money, determined by the Experience
Level of your opponent.  If you lose, your opponent receives the money for
your level.  You will also gain Joust Status points upon gaining a level.
You may joust up to three times per call.

	You can also cast a non-combat spell and poison your weapon here to
ready yourself for battle.  In addition to this, you may type "Y" to bring
up a mini-status screen.  There is even an alley that leads to the Square,
but be forewarned - another user may "accidentally bump" you and pick your
pocket here.


                              Bulletin Boards
                              ===============

	"No man be an island, though Tiny is gettin' close to the size.  A
sissy like yerself will do best to stay in one of these safe areas.  The
King likes to see his subjects talkin' to each other, so ye best get in
there and converse with yer fellow vermin.  If ye don't, I'll be collectin'
a Silence Tax every time ye visit!"

	This is your standard message base.  If the sysop opts to set a
post-to-call ratio (one message must be entered per set number of calls),
you must abide by it or be taxed the difference between your post-to-call
ratio and the required ratio automatically upon logon.  BBS etiquette
prohibits entering messages stating, "I'm just posting this to boost my
ratio." If there is no existing sub that interests you, suggest one that
would to the sysop.

	To read the messages, simply select a sub's number upon entering
this area.  Those preceded by an asterisk are ones that contain unread
messages.  Select "N" to read all new messages, "F" to read a sub's first
message, "L" to read the last message posted, and "P" to read the messages
in reverse order.  Note that if you hit "L" before reading new messages
within a sub, your pointer (kind of an electronic bookmark) will be reset
to the last message - you will have to hit "P" to scan all previous
messages until you hit those you have already seen.

	You can enter a message in one of two ways.  Selecting "E" after
entering a sub will allow you to post.  If you are scanning messages, you
will have the option of using "R" to reply to a particular message, either
publicly (in the message base) or privately (via e-mail).  When you opt to
enter a message, you will be asked to provide an addressee of the message,
or just hit the Return key to have it addressed to All.  The BBS will
automatically supply who the message is from and the date/time.  If you
address a message to a specific user, that user will be notified at logon
that they have a message waiting.  Then you will be in the BBS message
editor - just type away, and when you are done, type either /s on a blank
line to save it, or /q to abort it.


                            Deep, Dank Dungeon
                            ==================

	"If ye want a REAL challenge, go kill some monsters in the Dungeon
- that's where the real money lies.  If ye're not scared, that is.  Best
watch out, though, 'cuz there's plenty of surprises to trip ye up.  And if
ye run into another limp-livered coward like yerself down there, he's like
to mistake yer ugly face for a monster and attack.  Maybe ye'll even find
the Legendary Wishin' Well down there, but ye'd probably mistake it for a
chamberpot."

	When you enter the Dungeon, you will start on the floor one higher
than your Experience Level.  Each mazelike level will vary in size; the
lower you go, the possibility of a larger floor size.  Do not bother
keeping maps, as each level is randomly generated each time you enter.  The
top half of your screen holds a top-view of the current dungeon floor.  The
player's position is highlighted as -YOU-.  The bottom half of the screen
is for a rolling, text display.  The prompts will guide the player along
their adventure.  Please note that the dungeon will accept most cursor keys
as a substitute for the directions, North, South, East, West.

	The Dungeon is filled with monsters to slay, most of them
commensurate in might to the Dungeon level.  On occasion, though, a more
powerful creature will work its way up to one of the higher levels, so
watch out.  Sometimes you will find another user on the Dungeon level
matching their Experience Level.  Some monsters keep maps of the Dungeon
level they are on.  If you find one, you will be able to display all rooms
on that level.  If your Intellect is above 50, you will be able to keep a
map of all the rooms you have been in.  A key follows:

	 Mon:  A room inhabited by a monster.

	 Mob:  A room inhabited by a mob of monsters!

	 ?:  Unknown.

	 (Clr):  The Cleric, who can heal your wounds (for a price).

	 (Wiz):  The Wizard, which will allow you to teleport out of the
	  Dungeon, up or down a level, or randomly teleport to a room on
	  the current Dungeon level.

	There are many other items you can find as well.  Potions of all
types, as well as wands and scrolls, can be found in empty chambers and
hidden caves.  But beware:  sometimes a monster or an armor-spoiling bat
may be lurking in the shadows of these "safe" rooms too.  Some monsters
might even possess weapons that can not be purchased in the Square.  These
Weapons or Armor may be cursed or have an ego, giving them unique powers.

	Pay attention to the directions available to go in the Dungeon.
Running into a wall will cause damage to your Hit Points.  Your options
will be available right beside the prompt.


                               File Section
                               ============

	"Ye'll do just fine to visit this area as well - ye won't get hurt
in it!"

	When you enter the File Section, you must select an area from those
available as you did in the Bulletin Boards.  You can then list the files
in that area and download one using Xmodem, Zmodem, or Kermit protocols.
Uploads must go to a special Uploads directory to be reviewed by the sysop
before they are made available to the public.


                              Gambling Casino
                              ===============

	"Short on cash, are ye?  Well, the gods tend to smile on the
foolish, so you should stand a good chance.  Maybe ye'll even win the
Monster Jackpot - and I'm sure ye'll be willin' to fork over the city's
share to me."

	In addition to Blackjack, Craps, Dog Racing, High Card, Keno,
Roulette, and the Slots, you can also deposit or withdraw money via the
Instant Cash Machine.


                                Naval Area
                                ==========

	"No, this area don't deal with yer bellybutton, knave.  We're
talkin' ships here.  Get yerself a REAL ship instead of that little dinghy
an' ye might be able to bring back a seamonster carcass an' sell it.  Or ye
can do battle against another mangy cur like yerself and lay claim to their
booty.  But if ye think ye'll be doin' some fishin' for relaxation, think
again!"

	In the Naval Area, you must first visit the Shipyard to buy a boat
once you have saved up enough money.  You can then arm it with a ram and
one cannon per 50 Hull Points.  Once you have made your purchase, you can
hunt either denizens of the deep or other users.  Hitting "L" will display
which users have ships, as well as how powerful those ships are.  Each time
you log on your Hull Points are restored, though lost Hull Points can be
repaired in the Shipyard during the same call.

	From this menu you can also fish, which will yield some interesting
results.  I will not spoil the fun by telling you everything that can be
caught, but the higher your Charisma, the better chance you have of
catching beneficial items.  You will, on occasion, catch oysters - the
value of their pearls are based directly on how many cannons your ship has.


                               Party Fights
                               ============

	"There's strength in numbers, but four cowardly gnats like yerself
still won't amount to much.  Others got the same idea, an' they'll be more
than happy to show ye THEIR strength.  If ye think yer gang's tough enough,
take on the Monster Mash an' see how some REAL partyin's done!"

	To get in on Party Fights, you must either join an existing gang or
start one of your own.  To see if there are any openings, select "L" to
list all gangs.  Any that have slots saying "-empty-" are available for
your membership.  Alternately, a gang leader may invite you into a party -
you will receive the invitation in your notes when you log on.  Listing
gangs at this point will show your handle with (Invited) after it in the
party into which your presence has been requested.  You may want to check
the Most Wanted List to ensure that the gang you are about to join does not
have a past history of taking a beating on a regular basis.  You may resign
from a gang, if you have not used your party fight that call.

	If you would like to form your own Party, simply select "S".  You
will then be asked to supply a name for your gang.  Once that is complete,
you can edit the gang, inviting potential teammates.  Do not invite users
that are already in a gang - chances are slim they will leave theirs for
yours.  The perfect gang combination consists of a heavy-hitter (Barbarian,
Fighter, or Ranger), poison-using class (Alchemist, Assassin, Thief),
magic-using (Sage, Magician, Cleric, Jester), and jack-of-all-trades (Bard
or Rogue).  Keep this in mind when selecting other members.  If you do not
invite specific users into the gang, any user has the option of joining.

	As gang leader, you may have the option to replace undesirables at
any time.  If you would like to put someone else in charge, you can use "T"
to Transfer Leadership.  Note that if a member of your Party kills you,
that person automatically assumes leadership.

	Any of the four, possible members that have joined the gang may
initiate combat with another Party.  Only gang members with Alive!  status
can participate in the gang battle.  Any time another Party is defeated,
the victors divide the spoils (based on Experience Levels) of all money
that was in the losing gang members' hands.  If the defeated gang was
powerful enough, you will also gain a level.  Be sure to use "Y" to check
your statistics during battle, and keep in mind that discretion is indeed
the better part of valor - if your Party is defeated, you will be logged
off.  If you are defeated during the fight, your call will only continue if
you go up an Experience Level and receive more Hit Points.


                                The Square
                                ==========

	"Ye'll need to be doin' some shoppin' if ye stand a chance of
survival.  Not a high one, mind ye, but a chance.  Of course, once ye get
some coinage saved up, I expect ye'll be doin' yer part to keep this fine
city runnin'!"

	The Square is your character's online shopping mall.  The Armory
and Weapon Shoppe allow you to buy and sell the tools of your trade.  Here
is a complete list of items:

Dart			1c		Wooden Shield		5c
Sling			2c		Small Shield		10c
Dagger			5c		Large Shield		50c
Staff			10c		Leather			100c
Club			25c		Padded Leather		500c
Hammer			50c		Studded Leather		100c
Mace			100c		Ring Mail		5000c
Flail			250c		Scale Mail		10000c
Spear			500c		Chain Mail		1s
Axe			1000c		Splint Mail		5s
Harpoon			2500c		Banded Mail		10s
Short Bow		5000c		Bronze Plate Mail	50s
War Hammer		10000c		Normal Plate Mail	100s
Battle Axe		25000c		Field Plate Armor	500s
Light Crossbow		50000c		Full Plate Armor	1000s
Javelin			1s		Dancing Shield		5000s
Short Sword		2s,50000c	Dragon Scale Mail	1g
Long Bow		5s		Elfin Chain Mail	10g
Long Sword		10s		Minthral Plate Armor	100g
Heavy Crossbow		25s		Cloak of Elvenkind	500g
Scimitar		50s		Robe of Blending	1000g
Pole Arm		100s		Adamantite Plate Mail	5000g
Broad Sword		250s		Cloak of Displacement	1p
Trident			500s		Cube of Force		5p
Two-Handed Sword	1000s		Ring of Invisibility	10p
Gloves of Strength	2500s
Dart of Homing		5000s
Sling of Seeking	1g
Dagger of Venom		2g,5000s
Staff of Striking	5g
Hammer of Throwing	10g
Mace of Disruption	25g
Axe of Hurling		50g
Hammer of Thunderbolts	100g
Axe of Lords		250g
Crossbow of Distance	500g
Sword of Quickness	1000g
Arrows of Slaying	2500g
Sword of Sharpness	5000g
Crossbow of Accuracy	1p
Scimitar of Speed	2p,5000g
Sword of Wounding	5p
Trident of Submission	10p
Vorpal Sword		25p
Wand of Wonder		50p
Rod of Smiting		100p
Sword of Life Stealing	250p
Wand of Lightning	500p
Ring of Shooting Stars	1000p
Staff of the Magi	5000p

	Real Estate and Security are very important - they help to keep you
from getting robbed by other users.  Here is a complete list of items:

Cardboard box		100c		Baseball bat		100c
Cave			1000c		Boulder			1000c
Stable			10000c		Fence			10000c
Shed			1s		Padlock			1s
Shack			10s		Dead bolt lock		10s
Barn			100s		Trip wire trap		100s
Hovel			1000s		Barbed wire fence	1000s
Cabin			1g		Dog			1g
Room above tavern	10g		Shotgun			10g
House			100g		Stone wall		100g
Mansion			1000g		Burglar alarm		1000g
Tower			1p		Security guard		1p
Castle			10p		Moat			10p
Palace			100p		Garrison		100p
Fortress		1000p		Magical barrier		1000p

	And you will probably be paying more than a few visits to the
Butler Hospital, where you can heal your wounds for a small fee.  If you
cannot afford to heal all your Hit Points, the Hospital will sympathize and
take a loan out for you from the Bank.  You can try to Pick Pockets in this
busy sector, if you are careful not to get caught by the city guard.  And
you can take the alley leading to the Arena.

	In the Mages Guild, you can buy magical wands, scrolls, or spells,
depending on which your class uses.  As more energy must be expended to
create wands, they cost considerably more and may become inoperative after
each use.  Scrolls are cheaper, but may also be consumed in the casting as
are wands.  If your class is fortunate enough to use spells, you only need
to buy each once and it will stick with you until you reach Immortality.
Each spell is described below.

	 Charisma, Intellect, Strength, Dexterity:  Each of these will
	  temporarily raise each respective ability from one to ten points
	  each time it is cast, to a maximum of their class allows.

	 Shield, Hone:  These will augment your weapon and armor.  Be
	  careful not to augment them too much!

	 Teleport:  This spell replaces the Wizard in the Dungeon.  It can
	  also be cast as a defensive, escape measure in battle.

	 Heal, Blast:  These are used to restore lost Hit Points or cause
	  an opponent to lose some.

	 Resurrect:  This spell will bring a dead user back to life so
	  they can be killed again.

	 Confusion:  This will distract your enemy in battle, making them
	  miss and their spells fail more often.

	 Transmute:  This spell will permanently change your opponent's
	  weapon to something of lesser value.

	 Cure:  This spell will restore ALL lost Hit Points.

	 Illusion:  This spell will summon an ally of the same qualities
	  of the caster.

	 Disintegrate:  This will completely atomize your opponent.

	 Morph:  This spell, which can only be cast in battle, will
	  randomly change your opponent's character class and level.  Note
	  that you could make him more powerful, a God class, or force an
	  extermination, a class of None.

	All spell-casting attempts are subject to failing or even
backfiring.

	The Apothecary sells poison, which will enhance your blade in
battle.  The more expensive the poison, the better the damage, though some
of the lesser weapons can not hold a good dose of the better poisons.
Classes unfamiliar with the use of poison must pay extra for a special
blend which has been magicked to adhese to the blade, while those very
familiar with the application of poison may be able to get several doses
out of one small vial.  The Apothecary has preconceived notions about
certain classes, however, and will not sell poison to certain character
classes for fear of being reported to the authorities.

	Ye Olde Stone Bank is a relatively safe place to store your excess
cash, though it has been known to be robbed on occasion.  When you are
short on cash, the banker may even see his way clear to grant you a loan
based on your Real Estate and Security assets.  If you are feeling lucky,
you can try to Rob the Bank, but the chance is very slim, as the Bank hires
the best of security.


                               Tiny's Tavern
                               =============

	"I'll let ye go in and check this out for yerself.  Tiny an' me's
not on the best of terms."

	You enter the Tavern and are amazed by the size of the barkeep - he
must stand over seven feet tall.  His appearance - and abnormal height -
lead you to believe that human blood is not the only type flowing through
his veins.  He finishes drying a flagon, places it with several others, and
makes an adjustment to the sword hanging above his mantle.  He then turns
toward you and speaks.

	"New customer, huh?  OK, here's the rules, and I'm only gonna tell
ya once, punk.  There's some rough-housing that goes on here, so I'll
letcha get away with three brawls.  A lotta loose talk breezes through
here, so you'll wanna keep your ears cocked as well.  If you wanna keep up
on what's going on in the world, I keep a couple of newspapers lying around
here to read.  He points a meaty finger at a chart on the wall and
continues.  "Other people put bounties on the ones that done them wrong.
You can put up one of your own, chalk's right there on the sill.  Me, I've
seen it all working here - gimme a decent tip and I'll give ya one right
back.  But you'd best watch your mouth, punk, or I'll take ya down a notch.
I can stand a little abuse, but some things I just don't tolerate." With
that, he flexes a mighty bicep and continues his cleaning.

	In the Tavern, you can Brawl another user of higher or up to three
levels below you.  If you win, you receive one third of the experience
points for killing them and any money in their hand.  If you lose, your
opponent will get the same, and you will be knocked unconscious for
anywhere from one to ten minutes.  Watch out for those wild punches - your
enemy may duck and you will hit an unintended target, who may in turn join
in the fracas.

	You can also listen to or join in the arguments going on here.  A
log is kept of the current and previous days' activities for your review.
Or you can have an ale and talk to Tiny, who may have some good advice for
you.  You can also vent frustrations by Swearing at Tiny, but do not make a
habit of it or the consequences could be dire.

	If you want to exact revenge on someone, but they are too high or
low a level for you to do it personally, you can post a Bounty on them,
offering an added incentive for another player to do your dirty work.
There can only be one active Bounty on a user at any given time.  Once
another user kills the person you had a Bounty on, they receive your posted
cash.  If you kill the user that you had a Bounty on, it is lifted.


                               Other Options
                               =============

	"There's some other things ye can do here too, so don't let me
catch ye sittin' around not doin' anythin'.  Ye got two minutes on the
sundial to make a decision, then ye'll be escorted to the city limits for
malingerin'."

	The following lists options from the Main Menu not previously
covered.

	<C> Chat With the Sysop:  This will page the sysop, indicating you
would like to enter chat mode.  Also, do not use this option more than once
or twice per call - the gods frown on those who page excessively.

	<E> Electronic Mail and Feedback:  This command allows you to send
a private message to another user or the sysop.

	<L> List of Users:  Fame & Lame allows you to display the list of
users that have obtained the best scores in several categories.

	<M> Most Wanted List:  This command will display the top users in
descending order of level.

	<R> Rob/Burglarize Other Users:  By using this command you can
attempt to steal money from another user.  When you do, their possessions
will be slightly downgraded.  There is a chance that the user robbed from
will be informed who did the deed.  The better the real estate and security
of your target, the longer it will take for you to break in, and the better
the chance the city guard will catch you in the act.

	<U> User Configuration:  This allows you to change your terminal
emulation, number of rows displayed, and password.  You can also toggle
Expert Mode, which will suppress menu display.

	<X> X-terminate:  This option will reset your character and allow
you to select a new class.  Note that you do not get credit for this type
of reroll, and if used as an Immortal class, you will lose the option of
selecting that class again.

	<Y> Your Statistics:  This displays in-depth character information.
A secondary screen is also shown that informs you how close you are in the
Hall of Fame for both Character Class and All-Time categories.  For an
amount of money based on your level, you can Hire a Scout to show the
character statistics for another user.

	<Z> System Status:  This area displays registration info.


                             Becoming Immortal
                             =================

	"Ye really think ye can make it to God status?  I doubt ye can even
make it to Paladin.  I've seen a lot smarter than ye fail, jellyfish."

	Your ultimate goal on RPGBBS Deluxe is to work your way through the
Immortal classes, Paladin and Titan, and make it to God status.  If you
reach level 100 God, you win the game and the board is reset.  Descriptions
of each follow.

	 Paladin:  This class is the lowest of the superbeings, combining
	  a Ranger's combat skills with a Bard's use of scrolls, and an
	  Assassin's use of poisons and backstab.  Their robbing ability is
	  fair as well.

	 Titan:  This class has a Fighter's skill with a Magician's
	  spellcasting ability.  They use poisons, backstab, and rob very
	  well.

	 God:  This class combines a Barbarian's strength, a Sage's
	  spellcasting power, a Thief's backstab and robbing abilities, and
	  an Alchemist's use of poison.

	All Immortals gain two points in each ability as they gain an
Experience Level.

	To advance to the Immortal classes, you must successfully solve the
Riddle of the Keys.  When you reach Experience Level 100 in any class, you
will be presented with a locked doorway, and given four keys - platinum,
gold, silver, and copper.  If you have made the Hall of Fame in any area,
you will be given a Key Hint, such as "Key #2 is not silver".  You must
then supply which key you will try in the lock.  If you guess correctly,
you will be rewarded with a {Click!} and are advanced to Paladin class.  If
not, a ^BOOM!^ and you will be rerolled and must select from the lesser
classes..  To attain Titan class, you must unlock the second doorway as a
Paladin; to become God class, you must unlock the third doorway as a Titan.

	The Taxman escorts you back to the city gates.  "That's it for yer
tour, mongrel.  I hope ye enjoyed it.  I'm sure I'll be seein' ye again
real soon," he says in parting, patting his coin pouch.


                               Installation
                               ============

	RPGBBS Deluxe requires a minimum of an Amiga computer using version
2 operating system with 1-megabyte of available RAM.  A Hayes-compatible
modem is required to allow remote users to logon and play.  The program
itself can run on a dual-floppy system, but a hard disk is required to
handle the storage needs for multiple message and file sections.  About
512k of extra RAM is required per additional client.  A color monitor and
audio speakers are recommended, but are not necessary.

	All programs were written in SAS/C, utilizing shared libraries and
event-driven processing.  This makes the BBS operation very
system-friendly.  Installation is simple.  Just double-click the
InstallerScript icon and follow the prompts.  The following is a listing of
files that get placed on your system disk:

	 Fonts.  Two PC-8 compatible fonts are supplied for use with the
	  console, IBM and Venus.  IBM style offers a traditional look
	  while Venus suggests a more medieval feel.

	 Libs.  btree.library is a custom database handler for the various
	  files used by the server.  iff.library is used to help convert
	  iff brushes into a custom pxl-format.  rpgbbs.library contains
	  console emulation and other common functions used by server,
	  client, and utilities provided.  xemrpgbbs.library is an external
	  emulation module for terminal programs that support such
	  extensions (like the PD program Term).  xprkermit.library,
	  xprxmodem.library, and xprzmodem.library are public domain file
	  transfer protocols, so refer to their documentation files for
	  complete information.

	The following files are included in your RPGBBS directory:

	 RPGBBS.access holds user access information.  This file can be
	  modified to suit your tastes.

	 RPGBBS.arena lists the various arena monsters that can be battled
	  in place of a user fight.

	 RPGBBS.armor contains armor class tables.  Each table has an
	  origin and items within each origin.  The default origins are
	  Square, Dungeon, and Naval.

	 RPGBBS.class contains character class tables.  Each table has an
	  origin and character types within each origin.  The origins
	  supplied are Public, Immortal, Dungeon, and Tavern.

	 RPGBBS.dungeon lists the 100-supplied creatures that can be
	  encountered.

	 RPGBBS.license holds registration information.

	 RPGBBS.magic itemizes the names, costs, and power required of the
	  spells used.

	 RPGBBS.naval lists the various sea monsters that can be hunted in
	  place of a naval fight.

	 RPGBBS.paths identify the disk pathnames to be used by
	  RPGBBSclient.  Each pathname can be up to 40-characters.  If more
	  is required, use a logical assigned to the destination path.  The
	  pathnames are defined in the following order:  email, bulletins,
	  notes, uploads, # of file sections (1-16), file section name #1,
	  file section path #1, etc.

	 RPGBBS.poison itemizes the names and costs of the different vials
	  of poison types.

	 RPGBBS.realestate lists the types of Real Estate that can be
	  purchased in the Square.

	 RPGBBS.security lists the types of Security that can be purchased
	  in the Square.

	 RPGBBS.weapon contains weapon class tables.  Each table has an
	  origin and items within each origin.  The default origins are
	  Square, Dungeon, and Naval.

	These files are created in the RPGBBS drawer when the game is in
use:

	 GANG.master is a B-tree file holding the related party members.

	 RPGBBS.callers tracks the last three callers to the system and
	  why they logged off.

	 RPGBBS.hof holds the Hall of Fame records by the individuals who
	  broke them.

	 RPGBBS.hol holds the Hall of Lame records by the individuals who
	  broke them.

	 USER.master is a fixed-length, random file that grows as more
	  players sign-up.  It is keyed by the following B-tree files.

	 USERID.index is a B-tree file that allows random access to each
	  player's record.

	 USERLEVEL.index is a B-tree file that keeps track of each
	  player's level.  This makes lists by levels retrieve much faster.

	 USERNAME.index is a B-tree file that keeps track of each player's
	  handle, so one player can search for another by typing in the
	  whole handle.

	These files are created in the Notices drawer when the game is in
use:

	 Announcement holds a message from the Sysop that is displayed
	  upon user logon.

	 Auto-Message holds a message from a user and is displayed upon
	  every logon.

	 CallerID is a message that gets displayed if the caller id
	  feature was enabled, but the logon could not be identified.  The
	  player is allowed to continue, but he can not interact with the
	  other users.

	 Intro is a custom message from the Sysop.  It gets displayed
	  after a new user completes the registration form.

	 Logoff is a banner that is displayed when the user logs off.  An
	  ANSI version of this file, named Logoff.IBM, can be used as well.

	 Logon is a banner that is displayed before the user logs on.

	 Tavern is the arguments held at the local pub.

	 Today contains today's player activity and can be read from
	  Tiny's Tavern.

	 Yesterday is yesterday's newspaper, renamed from Today.

	The disk labeled PIX can optionally install the Pix drawer, which
contains text, ANSI, and PXL-graphic files of the various characters and
creatures the players will encounter.  The disk labeled EXTRA contains IFF
sound effects that get played in Local mode only.  It also has a
Documentation drawer containing various read-me files.


                                  Server
                                  ======

	The program, RPGBBSserver, is required to run before any clients
attempt to connect with it.  Typically, a script is used in your WBstartup
drawer to run RPGBBSserver, like the following example:

echo "Booting RPGBBS Deluxe..."
cd RPGBBS:
RPGBBSserver
wait 5 ;allow it some time to init & load files
echo "Booting Client..."
run >nil: RPGBBSclient Modem#1

	The server reads its icon file, RPGBBSserver.info, for Tool Type
options.  To modify these options, click on the icon once and press
Right-Amiga I, for Workbench's Icon Information utility.  Once there, you
can edit the following Tool Types:

	 RPG=(BBS, DOOR).  Running the server in BBS mode will create a
	  public screen for all the clients to attach their windows to.
	  DOOR mode will boot quietly in the background.

	 Mode=(screen mode request).  Allows you to select a suitable
	  video mode your monitor can display.  If this option is missing,
	  an ASL screen request will prompt you for an appropriate screen
	  mode.

	 Depth=(3,4,5,8).  Select a screen depth.  3 (8-colors) is
	  typically used by Amigas using the original 68000 Motorola
	  processor, such as A1000, A500, A600, and A2000.  This opens a
	  monochrome screen, which supports bold, dim, and blink
	  attributes.  4 (16-colors) can be used by accelerated Amigas,
	  such as A3000.  This opens an ANSI-color screen, but does not
	  support blink.  5 (32-colors) is for AGA chip sets only, such as
	  those found in A1200 and A4000.  This, too, opens an ANSI-color
	  screen, but it supports the blink character attribute.  8
	  (256-colors) can be used by retargetable graphic boards, like
	  Picasso-II, for speed and future palette support.

	 Width=(640).  Select a screen width in pixels.

	 Height=(200).  Select a screen height in pixels.

	 Font=(IBM.font, Venus.font).  Select a PC-compatible font.  If
	  this option is missing, an ASL font request will prompt you for
	  an appropriate font.

	 Size=(8).  Select a point size compatible with the typeface.

	Please note that you are only allowed one option within the
enclosed parenthesis.  When editing your choice, remove the parenthesis as
well, i.e., RPG=BBS.

	The index files:  USERID.index, USERLEVEL.index, USERNAME.index,
will be re-built from the USER.master, if the server was not properly
shutdown or if any of the indices were missing.


                                  Client
                                  ======

	The client reads the project icon file supplied for Tool Type
options, i.e., Local.info or Modem#1.info, when double-clicked from
Workbench or passed as a CLI-argument.  To modify these options, click on
the project icon once and press Right-Amiga I, for Workbench's Icon
Information utility.  Once there, you can edit the following Tool Types:

	 TITLE=(Client description).  Enter any text to appear in the
	  client's window bar, for example, the telephone number of the
	  line used by its modem.

	 FONT=(IBM.font, Venus.font).  Select a PC-compatible font.

	 SIZE=(8).  Select a point size compatible with the typeface.

	 DEVICE=(LOCAL, serial.device).  Select the serial-device software
	  driver to use or LOCAL if this client is to run from the local
	  keyboard only.

	 UNIT=(0-255).  Select the device number to be used, typically 0
	  for the internal serial interface.

	 BAUD=(300-?).  Enter the baud rate to set this client's modem as.
	  If the baud rate is set to 9600 or higher, it will not change
	  regardless of the connected carrier rate.  Only for settings up
	  to 2400 baud will it adapt to the remote user's modem rate.

	 INIT=(AT-command string).  This modem command string is sent
	  after the line has been initialized.  An example may be ATMS0=1
	  to instruct the modem to shutoff its internal speaker and to
	  answer the phone on the first ring.

	 QUIT=(AT-command string).  This modem command string is sent
	  after the client has been instructed to shutdown.  An example may
	  be ATZ to initialize the modem back to its default settings.

	 AREACODE=(###).  This is your local area code number.  It is the
	  supplied default whenever a new user does not specify one in
	  their telephone number prompts.

	 CALLBACK=(0, 1, 2).  This is the call-back verify level
	  indicator.  0=none, 1=local calls only, 2=any.

	 CALLERID=(0, 1, 2).  This is the caller id level indicator.
	  0=none, 1=result returned is in NMBR=########## format, 2=result
	  is in hexadecimal format.  Caller ID is an optional service your
	  telephone company may offer.  Further, your modem hardware must
	  be equipped with caller id capability.

	 DELAY=(# of minutes).  This is a fairness count of how many
	  minutes a player must wait between calls.  This helps prevent a
	  user from hogging the line.

	 OFFSET=(# of rows).  This is the number of rows you want the
	  client window to be placed from the top of the server screen.


                                   Sysop
                                   =====

	This utility can only operate while the server is running.  It
allows you to further customize the BBS/DOOR and edit any player's record.
Accessing its options is by use of pull-down menus.
