xprxmodem.library -- version 34.2


This is an XPR 2.0 implementation of the XMODEM protocol.

based on bmodem: the BIX modem program by David Betz, BYTE Magazine/BIX
		(Modified substantially by W.G.J. Langeveld for use in VLT)

Source code modifications and additions needed for XPR are:

	Copyright ©1990 Marc Boucher, All Rights Reserved.

This software is provided "AS IS" without warranty of any kind, either
expressed or implied, with respect to the programs described herein, their
quality, performance, or fitness for any particular purpose.

In no event will the author(s) be liable for direct, indirect, incidental,
or consequential damages.

redistribution of this software is permitted, provided that:

	1. all files are included, and in their original form.
	2. if included with a particular product (commercial or
	   otherwise), proper credit is given to the authors in that
	   product's documentation.

By using or distributing this software, you agree to understand and accept
the above.

The desire to move the seldom used xmodem protocol out of VLT, while
maintaining the functionality to those who needed it, motivated this
XPR implementation.

There's nothing really fancy about it.

Configurable options are: Text Mode, CRC, and 1K blocks

They default to "off" (T0,C0,K0).

This can be overridden by a environment variable, "XPRXMODEM", containing
a setup string, of the following format:

3 fields seperated by commas. The first character of every field is the type,
one of:
	T (text mode), C (crc), K (1k blocks).

The second char is either 0 or 1, expressing the boolean state of the
option.
	examples:

	T0,C1,K1 --> text mode off (binary mode), crc on, 1k blocks

	T1,C0,K0 --> text mode, crc off (checksum), normal 128byte blocks

The user might also be prompted for such a string when XProtocolSetUp() is
called, if the comm program does not provide the xpr_options callback
function.

If xpr_finfo is implemented in the terminal program, then it is used
to get the file type and the Text Mode field in the setup string is
ignored.

Marc Boucher
	Internet: marc@CAM.ORG
	BIX: mboucher
	Phone: +1 514 466 8932
